# TMNL Recruitment - Frontend Assignment

Congratulations! You have been selected to the Hard Skills Frontend Assignment at TMNL.


## Assignment

In this step, we want to see you working in this Full Stack project and explore your expertise a more practical way.

The project is organized in two application modules: backend and frontend.
While you can change anything in both modules, the backend module should be enough to fulfill all the assignment Back-end requirements.
So the focus is to work in the frontend module.

You are allowed to install or remove any libraries or even dismiss the entire project and do it from scratch if you prefer.
We are just offering a working scaffolding with an implemented Back-End and generated Client, so you don't have to spend time on it
and focus in the tasks, but you can do it the way you prefer. But it has to be implemented using Typescript and React.
Feel free to decide how much time to spend in this assignment.
Usually it can be done in less than 4 hours, and as mentioned earlier, in this assessment quality is better than quantity.
And the most important: We hope you'll have fun when working on it :)


### Delivery instructions

In order to work in this assignment, you can clone this repository, do all the necessary changes and when you are done, 
then reply to the recruiter with the link to your repository or zip it and attach to the e-mail 
(please make sure to delete node_modules and irrelevant files before zipping so it doesn't get really big and fail with the delivery).

Please let us know if you have any issue or suggestion.

##  Alert Application

You are in the team responsible for managing the Anti-Money-Laundering Alerts that are raised from TMNL to the banks.
In this assignment application, the Back-end is ready to be used and you have to build some Front-End functionalities.

- What is an Alert?

  An Alert is generated by our TMNL Anti-Money-Laundering Experts and Machine-Learning Model Developers, which are made available
  in the Digital Channels portal, and presented to the banks' Alert reviewers, so they can take actions on it (and combating crimes).

The alert structure is:

```typescript
id: string // The primary key of the alert (UUID)
transactionId: string // The bank specific transactionId
description: string // What made the transaction to raise an alert
```

The backend module is a NestJS REST Service with the following endpoints:

```typescript
POST   /alerts     // Create a new alert
GET    /alerts     // Get the list of alerts (with pagination support)
GET    /alerts/:id // Get an alert by id
PATCH  /alerts/:id // Update an alert by id
DELETE /alerts/:id // Delete an alert by id
```

Project Structure:

```bash
apps/
     frontend     # Front-End ReactJS project with main code and Unit Tests
     frontend-e2e # End to End tests project for the Front-End project
     backend      # Back-End project with main code and Unit Tests
     backend-e2e  # End to End tests project for the Back-End project
libs/
     backend-api-client # Generated client for the Back-End API
     common             # A module shared across all modules
```

TypeScript import paths:

```txt
@tmnl-recruitment-frontend-assignment/backend-api-client
@tmnl-recruitment-frontend-assignment/common
```

### Setup

#### Necessary tools

- Node JS 18
- [PNPM](https://pnpm.io): `npm i -g pnpm`
- [NX](https://nx.dev/): `npm i -g nx@16.7.4`

#### Commands

- Setup: `pnpm install`
- Run both the back-end and front-end projects: `pnpm start`
- Reset the database (service restart required): `pnpm db:reset`
- Run all tests: `pnpm t`
- Run the Integration tests only: `pnpm test:e2e`
- Run the Unit tests only: `pnpm test:unit`
- Lint the project: `pnpm lint`

#### Important notes

If you are running the e2e tests, make sure that the main application is not running, otherwise it will conflict and the tests can fail.

There are two pre-commit hooks that runs before you commit your code:

- Unit tests
- Linter

Make sure to stop the application before resetting the database otherwise it won't be reflected to the back-end service.

#### Back-end API generated code

In case you have changed the API and want the changes to be reflected to the generated client, you can simply re-run `pnpm start` or `pnpm build`.

If you want to make the Back-end REST API calls using the generated client, you can use the following code snippet as an example:

```typescript
import { DefaultApi as BackendClient } from '@tmnl-recruitment-frontend-assignment/backend-api-client'

const client = new BackendClient()
const getAlertsList = async () => {
  const result = await client.alertsControllerFindAll()
  return result.data
}
```

#### Database access

The chosen database for this project was SQLite, due to it's simplicity, so the database is just a file that is created during the application startup
If you want to inspect its content, you can simply use any SQLite GUI and open the `database.sqlite` file.

#### Easy interaction with the Back-end

In case you want to manually use the Back-end API to check its content or create some dummy data, you can simply start the project and open the
[Swagger API on http://localhost:3000/api](http://localhost:3000/api) and play with the REST API.

### Tasks

In this assignment, quality matters more than quantity. So take it in consideration before proceeding to the next task.
The Front-End module structure is very simple, so feel free to suggest the structure you prefer.

## Stories

The following is a list of stories you can choose from to implement. Choose the ones you feel more comfortable with and implement them in the order you prefer.
We expect you to implement at least 3 stories, but feel free to implement more if you want. Also, to timebox the assignment,
we suggest you to spend no more than 4 to 6 hours on it.

In general for our application we want to have a good user experience, so we want to have a good looking application, with a good navigation and a good feedback
to the user. So, feel free to use any library you want to achieve that.

### Story 1 - List Alerts

As a user, I want to see the list of alerts, so I can take actions on them.

#### Acceptance Criteria

- The list of alerts should be displayed in a table
- The table should have the following columns: `id`, `transactionId`, `description`
- The list is paginated with 10 items per page

### Story 2 - Create Alert

As a user, I want to create a new alert, so bank reviewers can take actions on it.

#### Acceptance Criteria

- The user should be able to create a new alert by clicking on a button
- The user should be able to fill the `transactionId` and `description` fields
- The user should be able to submit the form
- After the form submission, the user should be redirected to the list of alerts
- The new alert should be displayed in the list of alerts

### Story 3 - Alert Details

As a user, I want to see the details of an alert, so I can take actions on it.

#### Acceptance Criteria

- The user should be able to see the details of an alert by clicking on a button
- The user should be able to see the `id`, `transactionId` and `description` fields
- The user should be able to go back to the list of alerts

### Story 4 - Search Alerts

As a user, I want to search for alerts, so I can find the one I want to take actions on.

#### Acceptance Criteria

- The user should be able to search for alerts by `transactionId` and `description`
- The user should be able to see the search results in a table
- The table should have the following columns: `id`, `transactionId`, `description`

### Story 5 - Visualizing the Alert Status

As a user, I want to see how many alerts are in each status in a visual way, so I can quickly get a better understanding of the alert status overall.

#### Acceptance Criteria

- The user should be able to see the number of alerts in each status
- The user is able to see the visual on the dashboard page

### Story 6 - Alert Status Filtering

As a user, I want to filter the alerts by status, so I can focus on the ones I want to take actions on.

#### Acceptance Criteria

- The user should be able to filter the alerts by status
- The user should be able to see the filtered alerts in a table
- The table should have the following columns: `id`, `transactionId`, `description`

### Story 7 - Extending the Dashboard Page

As a user, I want to see the dashboard page, so I can have a better understanding of the alert status overall.

#### Acceptance Criteria

- The user should be able to see the number of alerts in each status
- The user should be able to see the 5 most recent alerts

### Story 8 - Something else

As an interviewer, I want to be surprised, so I can enjoy the alert application even more (Optional). ;)

#### Acceptance Criteria

- Feel free to implement anything you want in addition to the stories above that you think would be a good addition to the application and to show your skills.
